Welcome to Angular 9 fundamentals.
I believe that this is probably my ninth
or tenth Frontend Masters workshop.
And I think Mark may be
cringing every time I do this.
But I just am so impressed and
amazed at just really
the platform that he's created.
And that it's such
an honor to be here today.
And not only today, but for anybody that
watches these courses in the future.
I have made just an incredible
amount of friends.
I've met some really, really bright
people as a result of this platform.
And connecting and the feedback that
I have gone from these courses.
It touches my heart and
it makes it worthwhile.
And so I would say as well there's
just incredible amount of
content in Frontend Masters.
It's amusing to me that even though
I have content on the platform,
I still very much consume the additional
workshops as they come out.
So Will Sentance is probably one of
my biggest heroes in terms of his
teaching style and
just his depth of knowledge.
The functional JavaScript stuff,
I love it all.
And so to be here and to be able to
talk about Angular is just really,
really exciting to me.
And so, let's talk about
what we're going to cover.
Let's set some expectations.
Let's talk about just kind
of some housekeeping stuff.
And what you can expect over
the course of this workshop.
So the agenda here is
going to be as follows.
So Hello Angular is just we're
gonna set some context here.
We're going to talk about the Angular CLI,
we're going to talk about kind of modules,
routers.
And just give us just enough of a picture
to understand kinda what's happening and
so we don't feel completely lost.
And then, once we have that context set,
then we're going to get into
component fundamentals.
Talk about how component classes templates
work, and how they fit together or
the purpose that they play.
And then we're going to talk about forms,
services, server communication.
And then my all time favorite topic,
which is component driven architecture.
And from there, Angular routing,
and then unit testing fundamentals.
And this agenda, these modules
have been constructed in a way
that allows us to build something
very quickly and start to iterate it.
So in the first module,
we're gonna talk about the Angular CLI.
And we're just gonna build
an application very quickly.
And just to understand,
this is how you get up and running.
This is how you run
an Angular application.
These are the pieces.
Here's how you use the command line.
Once we have generated that, then we're
going to jump into a repository, a project
that I've prepared for this course,
that is a fully functioning application.
And so we kind of had this end goal
with a bunch of kind of cool stuff.
But we're going to start at a starting
branch that's kind of a pared down
version of that.
And we're just going to code.
And so I'll talk a little bit of code,
and I'll check that branch in.
And I'll give everybody a challenge for
them to do some code.
And then we'll come back and
I'll show the solution.
We'll check that in and
then we'll go to the next concept.
So these modules were done in a very
specific way for us to get up and
running and
start working with Angular very quickly.
So in the first module,
we're going to talk about the Angular CLI.
We're just gonna build something up and
we're going to see how that works.
But from there,
we're going to jump into a project
that I've prepared for this workshop.
That covers pretty much everything that
I want to talk about and then some.
And so, it's fully functional, you can
save it, it goes back to the server.
There's a lot of kind of neat
things in here that are there for
reference and for us to explore.
And so this is going to be on GitHub,
you can pull this down.
And from the master branch, that's gonna
be everything that we're gonna talk about.
All the extra stuff that I just put in
there because I thought it would be
helpful.
But then on the branches,
if you notice that we've created a branch
one to start out with,
which is a pared down version.
And then we have branches for
every one of the modules that
we're going to cover with a branch for
the module.
But then at the end of that module,
we have a coding challenge and
we have the solution for
that challenge and that branch.
And so if for
some reason you need to skip a module or
whatever, you can just jump
into the appropriate branch for
that module and get caught right back up.
And so we have branches for
every one of the modules with a solution
branch for the coding challenge.
And so this is the application
that we're going to build.
And if I shut this down real quick,
I can just show you what
the starting branch looks like.
So I'll go git checkout
00-start and this is going to
put us on the start branch.
And then I talk about this,
in the package.json you can see this.
But we have a special command here,
npm run server:all which is going to
spin up the front end application.
As well as a mock API that I've
created that we use when we get into
server communication.
So we'll just run this and
we'll let this compile.
And while that's generating and running
the other thing I want to point out is
that there is a PDF with a bunch
of slides that I've prepared.
And so just a bunch of stuff in here
that I don't necessarily use or
I'm going to use in the workshop.
But I still wanted to make it
available to you for reference.
And so this PDF is going to
be in the repo right here.
So when you pull this down,
you're gonna get this PDF.
And as if I realized there's a typo or
something I'll just post
a new version up to this.
But I wanted to make this available,
even though we don't use slides a ton.
I do think they're valuable for
kind of offline studying or for
reference purposes.
And so back into the starter application,
this is what we're going
to be working from.
So it's a pared down Angular application.
Because this is an Angular workshop and
not a typing workshop, I wanted to for
the sake of time, I just go ahead and
generate some of the basic HTML and
a CSS so
we could focus on Angular specifically.
One other thing that I want to mention,
in case this comes up,
is Angular is written in TypeScript.
And though I will be using TypeScript,
I'm not going to be focusing
specifically on that.
And so really focusing on Angular
fundamentals for people to get up and
running in Angular.
And so
I'm not going to strongly type everything.
I'm not gonna use all of
the TypeScript tricks and
kind of sugar that I like to
use in my day to day job.
Is that I'm really being conscious
of what we're working through and
focusing on the Angular portion, and
not so much the TypeScript version.
I love TypeScript, but I'm not going
to be as disciplined as I would be
is if I were doing this for
a production application.